# Lockfile version 9.0

## File format

File name: `pnpm-lock.yaml`

### lockfileVersion

A [ComVer](https://github.com/staltz/comver) starting with the major number `9`.

### packages

This is a mapping of dependency ID (`<pkg_name>@<pkg_version>`) to dependency object.

### packages[dependencyId].peerDependencies

### packages[dependencyId].peerDependenciesMeta

### packages[dependencyId].engines

### packages[dependencyId].os

### packages[dependencyId].cpu

### packages[dependencyId].libc

### packages[dependencyId].deprecated

### packages[dependencyId].bundledDependencies

### packages[dependencyId].resolution

### packages[dependencyId].hasBin

This field is `true` if the package has bin commands.

## snapshots

This is a mapping of all the dependencies of dependencies. Every entry in this record matches a directory inside the virtual store (`node_modules/.pnpm`). The keys are called dependency paths. A dependency path is a dependency ID and optionaly a peer dependencies suffix. A peer dependency suffix is a string concatenated from the dependency paths of the resolved peer dependencies of the given dependency. For instance, if `button@1.0.0` has `react` in peer dependencies, a dependency ID may look like this: `button@1.0.0(react@16.0.0)`. If react has peer dependencies of its own, the dependency path may become more complicated, e.g.: `button@1.0.0(react@16.0.0(react-dom@16.0.0))`.

### snapshots[dependencyPath].dependencies

This is a mapping of a dependency's dependency names to exact versions.

### snapshots[dependencyPath].optionalDependencies

This is a mapping of a dependency's optional dependency names to exact versions.

### snapshots[dependencyPath].transitivePeerDependencies

### importers

### importers[relativePath][dependencyType][dependencyName].specifier

`dependencyType` is one of `dependencies`, `optionalDependencies`, or `devDependencies`.

### importers[relativePath][dependencyType][dependencyName].version

