# Shrinkwrap version 3.3

## Changes

1. non-npm-hosted packages can have alias names

## File format

### shrinkwrapVersion

`3`

### shrinkwrapMinorVersion

`3`

### registry

Indicates what registry should be used for installing the dependencies. E.g.: `https://registry.npmjs.org/`.

### specifiers

### dependencies

### devDependencies

### optionalDependencies

### packages

This is a mapping of dependency path to dependency object. The [dependency path](../dependency-path.md) is relative (e.g., `/foo/1.0.0`) if the dependency
is from the registry specified in the registry property, or absolute (e.g., `registry.node-modules.io/foo/1.0.0`) if the package's
registry differs from the one specified as default in the shrinkwrap file.

### packages[dependencyPath].name

Is only present when the package name is not in the `dependencyPath`.

### packages[dependencyPath].version

Is only present when the package version is not in the `dependencyPath`.

### packages[dependencyPath].id

The universal identifier of the package. Read more about package id [here](../package-id.md).
It is only present when the dependency's package ID differs from its `dependencyPath`.

### packages[dependencyPath].dev

If `false` then this dependency is neither a development dependency ONLY of the top level module nor a transitive dependency of one. This is not set for dependencies that are both a development dependency of the top level and a transitive dependency of a non-development dependency of the top level.
It is `true` when the dependency is not a top level or a transitive prod dependency but only a dev one.

### packages[dependencyPath].optional

If true then this dependency is either an optional dependency ONLY of the top level module or a transitive dependency of one. This is false for dependencies that are both an optional dependency of the top level and a transitive dependency of a non-optional dependency of the top level.

All optional dependencies should be included even if they're uninstallable on the current platform.

### packages[dependencyPath].dependencies

This is a mapping of a dependency's dependency names to exact versions.

### packages[dependencyPath].optionalDependencies

This is a mapping of a dependency's optional dependency names to exact versions.

### packages[dependencyPath].peerDependencies

### packages[dependencyPath].engines

### packages[dependencyPath].os

### packages[dependencyPath].cpu

### packages[dependencyPath].deprecated

### packages[dependencyPath].bundledDependencies
