# Lockfile version 5

## Changes

1. `registry` field removed
1. `shrinkwrapMinorVersion` removed
1. `shrinkwrapVersion` is a ComVer instead of a number
1. `shrinkwrapVersion` renamed to `lockfileVersion`
1. When a package depends on peer dependencies, its dependency path contains the specs of the resolved peers separated by `_`. So the depndency path that was `/foo/1.0.0/bar@1.0.0` in shrinkwrap version 3/4, is now `/foo/1.0.0_bar@1.0.0`
1. Packages hosted by npm-compatible registry have never an id field specified. It is always possible to get the ID of such packages from their dependency path
1. Resolved scoped peers are escaped by `+` in dependency path (they were escaped by `!` in shrinkwrap version 3/4).
1. The lockfile is removed from `shrinkwrap.yaml` to `pnpm-lock.yaml`.

## File format

### lockfileVersion

A [ComVer](https://github.com/staltz/comver) starting with the major number `4`. `4.0` is written as `4`.

### packages

This is a mapping of dependency path to dependency object. The [dependency path](../dependency-path.md) is relative (e.g., `/foo/1.0.0`) if the dependency
is from the registry specified in the registry property, or absolute (e.g., `registry.node-modules.io/foo/1.0.0`) if the package's
registry differs from the one specified as default in the shrinkwrap file.

### packages[dependencyPath].name

Is only present when the package name is not in the `dependencyPath`.

### packages[dependencyPath].version

Is only present when the package version is not in the `dependencyPath`.

### packages[dependencyPath].id

The universal identifier of the package. Read more about package id [here](../package-id.md).
It is only present when the dependency's package ID differs from its `dependencyPath` and the package is not hosted by a npm-compatible registry.

### packages[dependencyPath].dev

If `false` then this dependency is neither a development dependency ONLY of the top level module nor a transitive dependency of one. This is not set for dependencies that are both a development dependency of the top level and a transitive dependency of a non-development dependency of the top level.
It is `true` when the dependency is not a top level or a transitive prod dependency but only a dev one.

### packages[dependencyPath].optional

If true then this dependency is either an optional dependency ONLY of the top level module or a transitive dependency of one. This is false for dependencies that are both an optional dependency of the top level and a transitive dependency of a non-optional dependency of the top level.

All optional dependencies should be included even if they're uninstallable on the current platform.

### packages[dependencyPath].dependencies

This is a mapping of a dependency's dependency names to exact versions.

### packages[dependencyPath].optionalDependencies

This is a mapping of a dependency's optional dependency names to exact versions.

### packages[dependencyPath].peerDependencies

### packages[dependencyPath].engines

### packages[dependencyPath].os

### packages[dependencyPath].cpu

### packages[dependencyPath].deprecated

### packages[dependencyPath].bundledDependencies

### packages[dependencyPath].requiresBuild

This field is `true` if the package has lifecycle scripts or the package is a native module that needs to be built.

### packages[dependencyPath].prepare

This field is `true` if the package is a git-hosted package and it has a "prepare" lifecycle script.

### packages[dependencyPath].hasBin

This field is `true` if the package has bin commands.

## Fields that are present in dedicated shrinkwrap

### specifiers

### dependencies

### devDependencies

### optionalDependencies

## Fields that are present in a shared shrinkwrap

### importers

### importers[relativePath].specifiers

### importers[relativePath].dependencies

### importers[relativePath].devDependencies

### importers[relativePath].optionalDependencies
